and I'll give you guys just one example
so one of the basic things that you can
do is become a reflective listener
instead of a problem solver or reassure
so did you guys notice that Jessica was
talking about a lot about problems right
she was talking about the problems that
I'm that she was facing and you guys
know what I never told her it's gonna be
okay I never told her you're gonna be
fine I never told her I think you're
gonna be fine I think everything's gonna
end up okay I never told her you know I
I believe in you I never said any about
which is weird because usually when
people come to us with problems our
thought is to reassure them like if
someone gets dumped by their girlfriend
our instinctive answer is hey man there
are other fish in the sea you'll find
someone else it'll all be okay you'll
find love again
you know that's actually the wrong thing
to say the right thing to say is man I'm
sorry that sucks for you you must be
feeling like right now is there
anything I can do to help so instead of
telling them that everything's gonna be
okay which is reassurance instead of
providing reassurance provide reflect
back what they say and be supportive so
if they say oh yeah you know she dumped
me and like I'm afraid that like I'm not
like no one else like I'm never gonna be
able to find a girlfriend again what you
should say to them if you want to be
like a better listener and support them
more is it sounds like you're afraid
that you're you're not gonna be able to
find someone to love you again and just
period pause and be silent after that
and then they're gonna respond with
something else and be like yeah man it
sounds like you're going through really
over rough time it sounds like you
really are not confident in yourself
period you don't tell that everything's
gonna be okay because that's not the way
they feel it's actually incredibly
invalidating it's kind of telling them
hey you're stupid what your your
feelings are wrong you are gonna find
someone you're an idiot how could you
not find someone like you're such an
amazing person the subtext is you're an
idiot and it's incredibly invalidating
so I think the first thing that you can
do is instead of providing reassurance
provide validation did you guys go back
and you watch the interview like a lot
of what I did was actually reflecting
back what she said like really like look
at what I said I didn't tell her
anything was going to be okay I just
sort of repeated back to her what she
was saying and that's what helps people
come out of it that's what helps the
emotions come out
then she feels supportive at the end of
it even though we were talking about
everything how everything is bad like we
didn't talk about there was no like
sunshine and rainbows in that
conversation it was bad man but how
does that help her at the end like I
don't know but it does so that's
something you can do
so Siller G sorry Sylar gray asks how
does compassion fatigue affect you it
doesn't to be honest so I think what
fatigues me is being inauthentic like
what's tiring is putting on a
act so what I love about what I do is it
doesn't if at eat like I mean sure I'm
tired at the end of it because it's like
you're kind of emotionally active but it
sort of feels like working out like at
the end of a workout you kind of feel
physically exhausted but like
spiritually powerful and that's so
compassion fatigue doesn't affect me
because sure there's like emotions and
that can be tiring but I find it like
spiritually gratifying to like help
another human being and it inspires me
and it gives me energy that's how I can
do it for like 10 hours a day what's
hard to do 10 hours a day is live a life
that is like not worth living to live a
life of like falseness and to put on a
mask like that's fatiguing
what's wonderful and this is the big
problem with gamers is that they
actually don't live a life that
spiritually fulfilling and so they feel
like they have low energy they don't get
that energy doesn't come from from like
expending energy energy come sorry
energy comes from like living a life of
purpose that's what gives you strength
doing something that matters like when
you're and you think about this I think
about the times in your life where
you've gone the extra mile and those are
times in your life when like someone
needed you right that's when you
actually like you're able to to
double-down like when your friend is
going through a breakup that's when you
can stay up till 4:00 in the morning and
like support them in the next day go to
class and still do a decent job when you
live a life that is like worth living
and you when you live a life that's
aligned with what you care about and
what you believe the world needs that's
actually invigorating it gives you a ton
of energy and if we think about what a
gamer's deal with like they deal with
like a lack of energy like they have
trouble getting out of bed they have
trouble getting out of the house like
why is that that's because they're not
tapping into energy they're not tapping
into an energy of like doing something
that has purpose and meaning and so
compassion fatigue sure it sort of
affects me a little bit but most of the
time when I go home I feel tired at the
end of a day of work but I feel
fulfilled and then that fulfillment like
carries over to my kids and though even
though I'm like physically exhausted
you know I'm still gonna like attend to
them in a way that that it's I mean it's
cool it's it feels good